 The objective of this project is to analyze the construction of a Minimum Variance Portfolio (MVP) using financial data. The primary objective of the MVP is to find the portfolio that achieves the minimum possible risk. To this end, this study focuses on utilizing the tick data of the top 33 French companies to estimate the variance-covariance matrix as accurately as possible, which is critical to accurately compute the MVP.

  The first step in the project is to collect the tick data of the top 33 French companies. This data is used to estimate the variance-covariance matrix, which represents the relationships between the returns of different assets. However, this matrix is often contaminated by noise and outliers, which can negatively impact the results. Therefore, two very powerful methods for cleaning the covariance matrix are applied in this study: Bootstrap Average linkage Hierarchical Clustering (BAHC) and Average Oracle.

  Once the covariance matrix has been cleaned, the next step is to use it to calculate the Minimum Variance Portfolio. This is done by finding the portfolio weights that minimize the portfolio variance while satisfying certain constraints. We present the results as the ratio of return to variance for the following day, as well as other metrics such as the difference between in-sample and realised variance. These metrics are used to evaluate the performance of the different cleaning methods and to determine which method provides the best results. In the end, we conclude that the covariance estimation that achieves the best results is the Average Oracle, but we explain why it is hard to extrapolate it to other datasets and market conditions. 
  
  This repo provides all the code used in the gathering of data, processing and the generation of results.
